---
id: 176
title: Now What?
date: 2009-01-18T15:18:49+00:00
author: Eitan
layout: post
guid: http://monotonous.org/?p=176
permalink: /2009/01/18/now-what/
openid_comments:
  - 'a:2:{i:0;s:5:"12432";i:1;s:5:"12437";}'
  - 'a:2:{i:0;s:5:"12432";i:1;s:5:"12437";}'
original_post_id:
  - "176"
categories:
  - Personal
  - World Affairs
---
The killing, for the most part, has stopped. But the nightmare is not over. This catastrophe is about to be induced into Israel&#8217;s hall of fame, right next to other prides such as [Operation Entebbe](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Entebbe) and [Tal Brody](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tal_Brody). The collective Israeli memory is going to remember the bloodshed of the last few weeks as a happy period, when we &#8220;let the IDF win&#8221;. It does not matter how many rockets fall on Sderot from now on, operation &#8220;Cast Lead&#8221; will always be remembered as a success, a testimony to our elan. Or at least a step in the right direction. The only dispute now is whether we should have continued the killing.  
This has been a bitter lesson for me. Since 2006, I have been in dispute with this country regarding the war in Lebanon. I was outraged when it started, both at the government and the gullible public. During those summer weeks there was nobody I knew in Israel who was thinking sensibly and not repeating the [hasbara](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hasbara) ex-general pundits were feeding everyone over the tube. The entire venture was a failure. A commission was formed, politicians were forced to quit public life, and the army practically purged it&#8217;s entire senior command.  
I was not expecting Israel to apologize, to knock on my door and say &#8220;we were wrong, you were right&#8221;. I was pessimistic on one hand, Israel&#8217;s military was going to look for the first chance to redeem it&#8217;s lost esteem, but optimistic in on the other, the public will not eat this kind of bullshit again. I was hoping that the 2006 experience would cultivate some healthy scepticism that would not allow generals to get away with anything.  
I was wrong. The war in 2006 was a failure, and everybody took it upon themselves to make it &#8220;work&#8221; this time, not just the army and government, but the public too. I naively believed that the disproportionate destruction and civilian death in Lebanon tickled the public, just a bit, but it didn&#8217;t. Lebanon turned into an unpopular war because of the shoddy intelligence, the rusting equipment and the hesitant commanders. The national disgrace was not the carnage, but the amateurish way in which it was carried out.  
By those standards, this last episode was an outstanding success. The intelligence was good, the raids were potent and demoralized the enemy, the reservists recieved modern and lubricated equipment, and the expectations were low. The dying and suffering civilians in Gaza did not play a role in the metrics of this operation&#8217;s success. The disfigured children in overcrowded hospitals were a setback only in the sense that the world was watching, and it was getting awkward. The public here did not blink.  
Do you want your children to learn that narritive in history class? It is a mark of Cain, not a victory. We can&#8217;t let it go down as one.